Welcome, in this video, we're going to look at the differences between
SSH authentication and, specifically, HTTPs.
We have our "demo" repository on GitHub, and we have been using HTTPs
to authenticate in order to push changes up.
HTTPs is perfectly fine, but there are a few drawbacks.
For example, I'm going to go back to my terminal program,
and I'm currently in the "demo" repository that we have locally,
and I'm on the master branch, in a clean working directory.
This demo repository is linked to the GitHub repository that we just set up.
Currently, the origin repository is set up to use the HTTPs.
So when we try to do a push, "git push origin master",
GitHub will prompt me for my username and password.
For private repositories, it may prompt you each time
you need to do any network-based communication, including pulling or fetching
or anything else that requires going back to the remote.
For public repositories, it may only prompt you when you need to push changes up.
Also, if you've been following along, and you weren't
prompted for your username and password,
it means you are on an operating system like the Mac
that has a password manager like Keychain, and that Keychain is configured
to keep track of your username and passwords from the terminal program.
This is the way I have things configured now, and so I actually had to delete
my prior configuration in order to force this to happen again.
If you're on Windows, you may be prompted again and again
for your username and password each time you need to communicate back to GitHub.
This can get annoying after a while, and thus we have SSH,
which is just as secure as HTTPs, and it's a little bit more convenient,
since we establish a public and a private key that this machine knows about
and is registered with GitHub as well. We're going to set that up in the next few videos.